questions:
1) when putting a single charged beam weapon on a fighter with the 'bomber' 'role', how do i make said fighter point straight at the target until the beam is done firing? as is, they try to turn before its done and that's no fun.
2) with a weapon, is there a way to have it look different when it has charges / has no charges? and if so, can you please show me a example so i can attempt to mimic it?

the checklist for the BAR MINAMUM before i can play with this mod:
1 capital
    -theory
the civ ships (1 cruser, 3 specalized drones)
    -theory
the advanced gunship destroyer drone.
    -theory
3 combat drones (carrer, P-Jump drone, defence drone)
    -status:
        carrer Drone: needs system
        P-Jump Drone - system done.
        defence Drone - not started
1 bomber wing
    -Notes:
        - i dont like the implmentation of the lazar. maybe try something like the gatalen lance? or the boogle blaster?
    -status:
        weapon:
            looks: done. i might need to splice off parts of the drone to make way for the wepon though.
            implementation: it exists. I hate the gun. the lazar is so BORRING! I might change it for something more like a gatalin lazzar maybe?
            balance: null
        looks: started. i need more detail on the core maybe? but it should look fine from afar. maybe try to add some straps or something?
        balance: theory
    -notes: holy hell that was hard. pixel art is not my strong suit it would seem
1 large E weapon
    -theory
code:
    a system to spawn in ships with this method.
    a system to stop ships from being spawned in with this method.
things i would like to have:
a second capital (for the advanced gunship.) with the remote plasma shield ability
a cruiser or destroyer (for the P-jump drone) with the phase recall ability

a high tech station re-skin (with maybe some vill fighter bays on secondary parts)

notes:
	I have started to look at what is required to start to produce ships. and im going to be honest: the battleship i want makes me nervus.
	as a result, i think im going to need to do 2 things:
	1: i am going to have to build a different drone first. im going to have to try and pixel art some of it, because i fear i will need to, to be able to get the details right.
	2: I am going to have to go onto the discord, and see if i can learn anything about spriting. i don't know what im doing help

note on creating a ship:
    the 'mod dictionary' should NOT likely be the xhan empire mod link it to my own mod, and make sure it loads afterwards.
    'variants' are required for custom ships to spawn in NPC fleets. it is not a variant for player????
    also, try to keep the bounding box with as few parts as possible.
    link: https://starsector.fandom.com/wiki/Intro_to_Modding

notes on creating a weapon:
    weapons are made of 3 parts:
        1) the static part of the gun
        2) the moving part of the gun
        3) the glow of the gun
    each needs a separate sprite.

notes on fighters:
    fighters are basically ships. everything the same.
    if i want the weapon on the fighter to be visible, i should make it a not 'hidden' weapon. if not, i should most certainly not do that.

data on the fleet doctrine:
right now, in the base Xhan empire mod, there is 2 destentct 'groups' of ships: drones, and hiveships.
hiveships provide a luggistic and fighter support role.
drones provide the core of the front line combat units.
I would like to continue this pattern. but well thinking of ships and specializations, i had a idea:
instead of having my hiveships lean into a 'weaker then normal ships' role, why not instead make every 'hiveship' be at least someone based around the idea of supporting smaller ships?
so im creating this part of the document on fleet doctoring.
hiveships:
    hiveships should be capable of some front line combat, but not be the strongest at it. there main rule will be to support the droneships, or other ships.
    to the end of having hiveships support other ships, i have opened a new ability section, for ability's i could give larger hiveships to enforce there role as support
drones:
    drones should be capable of front line combat, and maybe some support abilitys sometimes, but mostly used for combat.

data on how ships are desinged:
please note, that do to desing of the crafts, both 'drones' and 'hiveships' have diffrent requirements for many things
bridge:
	hiveship:
	    one cetner bridge. seems rather flat? lots of green lights, and tends to go in a circle around. can be oddly shaped
	drone:
	    one or 2 little dots of green light, facing forwards. they tend to be on center, but when they are not, they are smetrical. can have a bit of houseing, unless its ubstructed by armor
engions:
	hiveship:
	    most of the unarmerd back of the ships are coverd in engines.
	drone:
	    --
outer armor:
	hiveship:
	    large green armor on the sides of the ship, compleatly covering the sides. rarely on the front, and only then used to elevate positions of the mounts and only very sparcly. also, rarely on the back as well
	drone:
	    --
mount positions:
	hiveship:
	    mounts seem spread apart, with the bigger guns in the center, and the smaller ones in the outer ponits of the craft? im unsure...
	drone:
	    --, however, there is one ship with its larger mount at the front of the craft.
unarmerd sections:
	hiveship:
	    im unsure how to exsplan. plz hold...
	    ok, so, most of the craft is coverd in this 'grey' coloar, that looks a lot less like armor then the rest of the craft. but i think it is, just not the armor on the sides.
	    this armor tends to be more prealvent in the center, but always feels like a a a a a.
	    i cant exaplane. its were the green armor is not.
	drone:
	    --
hangers:
	hiveship:
	    on the front of the craft, always. also, sourounded by unarmerd sectrions. tend to be semetrical. built into the craft, built so the hanger entrence is on the very edge of the outline of the craft.
	drone:
        as drone desinges can differ from hiveships, i can be more creative here. but proboly should not, as doing so can cause me some issues latter, because the ships wont look like one group.
groves:
    hiveship:
        on the innor grew parts of the ship, there are a lot of, 'groves'. it took forever for me to realize what they are..
        they are wrinkles. like on a really old mans face. I dont know how to feel about this.
        but it does mean one thing: there is a 'base' color here, and the 'wrinkles' that take up most of the space make up the texture.
        i will have to try this out hopefully.
    drone:
        --
ships i want:
hiveShips:
	capitals:
		a): the hive carrier.
			status: started. in notebook.
			-NOTE: i need to redo the base outline. after some consideration, it does not match the rest of the sub-faction
			battle carrier.
			6 fighter bays (3 vill)
			1 LEM, 4 MEM, 8 SEM
			system: reserve deployment, or high energy weapons, or a mobility system
			drones: ? carrier drone, ? defence drone?
			NOTES:
				I have stoped develupment into this ship for the time being. i need to imporve my ability to draw and pixle art before i will have the ability or the skill to handle this task. however, a partly built ship does exsist for it.

        b): the hive battlecarrer.
            status: not started.

            battle carrier.
            2 - 3 fighter bays, (2 - 3 vill)
            ? LEM, ?MEM, ?SEM
            system: remote plasma shield? phase recall? high energy weapons maybe? maybe something more crazy???
            drones: 1 Advanced Gunship Destroyer. 2 P-Jump drones.

	cruiser:
		a): the hive hular.
			status: not started. in notebook
			cargo carrier.
			2 fighter bays (2 vill)
			1 MEM, 4 SEM
			system: high energy weapons?
			drones: swappable. between cargo drone, fuel drone, crew drone.
	destroyer:
	frigates:
drones:
	capitals:
	cruiser:
	destroyer:
		a): Advanced Gunship Destroyer.
			status: not started. in notebook.
			gunship.
			3 MEM, 2? SEM.
			system: limited P - Jump.
	frigates:
		a): carrier drone.
			status: in game. needs to change system and restat ship
			carrier drone.
			1 fighter bay. (0 vill)
			1 SEM?
			system: slow recall, or targeting feed, or time warp
		b) cargo drone.
			status: not started. in notebook.
			variant of: cargo drone
			cargo drone.
			1 or 2 SEM?
			system: plasma burn
		c) fuel drone.
			status: not started. in notebook.
			varent of: cargo drone
			cargo drone.
			1 or 2 SEM?
			system: plasma jets
		d) personell drone.
			status: not started. in notebook.
			varent of: cargo drone
			cargo drone.
			1 or 2 SEM?
			system: bio-flares.
        e) defence drone.
            status: not started.
            heavy shield drone.
            1 - 3 SEM? or maybe 1 MEM but with a PD weapon of some sort?
            system: fortress shield. (with maybe 180 coverage at most? maybe less?)
        f) fighter carrier drone.
            status: not started. might never start
            carrier drone
            1 fighter bay (0 vill)
            system: ether some type of 'jump fighter' thing, or maybe I dont know, something???
        g) (?)EMP drone.
            status not started. might not do because it might be OP
            EMP drone.
            1 - 3 SEM.
            system: EMP arc emitter.
        h) P-Jump drone
            status: in game. needs to restat and change system.
            P-Jump Drone.
            4 SEM.
            system: limited phase jump
            description: im thinking something wide, shrinking turds the back of the ship. 3 forwards mount on the frond and sides. PD on the back facing backwards.
            its so poorly armed so i can have a excuse to make it only 4DP



wepons:
    LE:
        suppression plasma cannon
        charges: null
        op: high
        damage: ???
        range: long - mid
        description of gun: undecided
        description of shot: a shot of green plasma, that on landing explodes into a clowed of fragmentation damage plasma
    LB:
    LM:

    ME:
    MB:
    MM:

    SE:
        fighter strike beam
        charges: 1
        unobtainable
        damage: mid - high.
        range: mid.
        description of gun: a center 'power core', before a longer focusing array?
        description of shot: something like a thinner rift beam (from that strange ship i love), with a smaller impact

    SB:
    SM:
        ???repair missile:
        damage: negitive mid.
        range: mid
        tracing: exsalent
        description: would go towards the targeted friendly unit, or if a enemy was targeted, would try to find a damaged friendly unit instead. can target self.


fighters:
    bombers:
        beam bombers:
            size: 3 - 6?
            crew per fighter: 0
            opp: mid
            speed: mid-fast
            shield: front shild with ok strength
            hull: low
            ability: none.
            weapon: 1 fighter strike beam
    fighters:
    interceptors:
    other:
        repair drone
            size: 1?
            crew per fighter: 0
            opp:NA (only built in)
            range: very low.
            speed: slow
            shield: none
            hull: low
            ability: none.
            weapon: 1 repair beem
            -this ship would attack friendly units with a beam, that would resore said ships hull ponits (not armor, that OP as flip)


systems:
    notes:
        the idea behind systems that effects 'others', is that support ships would gain such ability, then use them on different ships in combat to improve there ability.
        also note: i have built 3 'other' system basic desings now, and they follow a them. so im going to run down the list of ability i have thought about giving my units with said ability here instead
            1) plasma jets
            2) high energy weapons
            3) some type of time warp (for real, there is no way i can balance something like -that!-)
            4) high recharge weapons (like automated ammo feeder, but for energy weapons)
            5) ability to give ships a charge of phase hop.
            6) putting a friendly unit in phase for a few seconds.
    mobility systems:
        self:
            -example
                description:
                targeting:
                strength:
                cost:
                range:
                duration:
                cool down:
                recharge:
                charges:
                mechanics:
            -limited phase jump
                description:a phase jump
                targeting:  same as phase jump (mouse for target jump ponit, target for target direction)
                strength:   NA
                cost:       some hard flux maybe?
                range:      long range
                duration:   1.5 seconds (to complete the jump)?
                cool down:  lone (maybe 2x as long as normal phase jump)
                recharge:   same as cooldown, or NA
                charges:    2 or NA
                duration:   NA
                mechanics:  a simple phase jump. but green (like the phase hop system)
        others:
            -phase recall:
                description: a recall system, like phase jump
                targeting: only targets friendly ships. targets ships that are overloading, then ships with low HP but are in combat, then none.
                           maybe restrict targets to destroyer or smaller?
                strength: NA
                cost:     some hard flux for the ship
                range:    long
                duration: 1.5 seconds (same as limited phase jump)
                cool down: long
                recharge:  --
                charges:   NA or 2
                mechanics: would teleport the target ship next to this ship, in a empty space. best used with backline ships, like carrers
    offencive systems:
        self:

        others:
    defencive systems:
        self:
        others:
            -remote plasma shield:
                description: targets a friendly none fighter ship, and give it a sheild equal to  hit ponits, costing 500/
                targeting:  would target other ships (cant target self). would prioritize ships thar are overfluxed or close, then ships fighting with low HP, then ships in combat. would prefer smaller ships when a chose is given. would be used less and less as the ship gains flux, and more when flux is free.
                strength:   1000/2000/4000/8000
                cost:       500/1300/3200/7600. 1/2/3/4 charges.
                range:      far, maybe 2k range
                duration:   maybe 30 seconds?
                cool down:  1
                recharge:   5
                charges:    8
                mechanics:   a line of green will go to the target, and when it reaches said target, said ship will gain shield around them.
                            said shield will have the following stats:
                            1 damage efficiency.
                            (power / time)*-1 flux desperation
                            power flax capacity.
                            360 degree arc
                            when the shield is over fluxed, it will simple vanish.
                            the negative flux desperation is to give the shield a fixed time limit on how long it can last.
                            would cost 1 charge per ship size? (to make it valid to target larger ships, and smaller ones with)
            -remote arc emitter:
                description: give a friendly ship basic the arc emitter ability. will hit missles and other ships.
                targeting:  friendly ships under missile fire, friendly ships in combat.
                strength: 3/6/9/12 shots.
                cost:     100/200/400/800 flux? 1/2/3/4 charges?
                range:    long? maybe 1200su?
                duration: maybe 10 seconds
                cool down:1 seconds
                recharge: 3 seconds
                charges:  10
                mechanics: would provide a modifier to a friendly ship, that lasts for duration. during this time, said ship will get the arc emitter buff. (effectively the arc emitter system). it would target nearby fighters and missiles and ships, doing damage and emp damage. once the charges are out, or the duration is exceeded, the buff would fade.
